README.md, before:

# Sprite2asm

Sprite2asm converts 16 color indexed PNG file assets, specifically sprite sheets, but also character screens to C64 assembly code.

### USAGE

`java Sprite2asm [options] file.png [[options] file2.png] ..`

The default is to convert hires sprites with background color set to the transparent color of the asset.

### OPTIONS

The following options can be put in the file name or given on the command line (with `X` and `Y` being hex digits):

 * `-bgX`:
 selects hires conversion with color `X` mapped to bit pattern `0` (background).

 * `-fgX`:
 selects hires conversion with color `X` mapped to bit pattern `1` (foreground).
 This takes priority over `-bg`.

 * `-mcXY`:
 selects multi color conversion with `X` mapped to bit pattern `01` (MC1) and `Y` mapped to bit pattern `11` for sprites or `10` for charsets (MC2).
 The background color is mapped to bit pattern `00`. Other colors map to the remaining bit pattern (`10` for sprites, `11` for charsets).

 * `-syXX`:
 y-offset applied when converting sprites (defaults to 0). Useful when extracting sprite overlays.

 * `-chXX`:
 convert to charset and charmap instead of sprites (bytes start at `XX`, usually `00`).
 With multi color conversion, characters consisting of 2 colors (where one is background) that contain single pixels are still converted as hires.

 * `-cmX`:
 together with `-chXX` also generate colormap with `X` as default character color. 
   
Options on the command line take priority over those in the file name.

Example: `java Sprite2asm -mcXY file1-ch07.png file2.png` will interpret asset `file1-ch07.png` as multi color and convert it to charset and charmap, where bytes in the charmap start at `7`. Asset `file2.png` will be converted to multi color sprites, as sprites are the default.

### BIT FORMATS

Multi color bits are interpreted differently for sprites, characters and bitmaps:

         mc bits  00        01         10         11
    sprites       BG:$D021  MC1:$D025  $D027+     MC2:$D026
    chars         BG:$D021  MC1:$D022  MC2:$D023  $D800+
    bitmap        BG:$D021  SCR:HN     SCR:LN     $D800+

      hires bits  0         1
    sprites       BG:$D021  $D027+
    chars         BG:$D021  $D800+
    bitmap        SCR:LN    SCR:HN

Sprites will always appear on top of bit patterns `0`, `00` or `01` of the underlying characters or bitmap. However, sprites with 'lower' priority - their bit set to `1` in `$D01B` - will appear behind bit patterns `1`, `10` or `11`.

Thus sprites are always displayed on top of MC1, but can be behind MC2.

### TODO
 * specify -dh for double height sprites (height 42) what pixel to take? upper or lower?
 * specify -dw for double width sprites (width 48) what pixel to take? left or right?

Commit message:

Added -tmX option for tilemap generation

README.md, after:

# Sprite2asm

Sprite2asm converts 16 color indexed PNG file assets, specifically sprite sheets, but also (tiled) character screens to C64 assembly code.

### USAGE

`java Sprite2asm [options] file.png [[options] file2.png] ..`

The default is to convert hires sprites with background color set to the transparent color of the asset.

The following options can be put in the file name or given on the command line (with `X` and `Y` being hex digits):

### INPUT OPTIONS

 * `-bgX`:
 selects hires conversion with color `X` mapped to bit pattern `0` (background).

 * `-fgX`:
 selects hires conversion with color `X` mapped to bit pattern `1` (foreground).
 This takes priority over `-bg`.

 * `-mcXY`:
 selects multicolor conversion with color `X` mapped to bit pattern `01` (MC1) and color `Y` mapped to bit pattern `11` for sprites or `10` for charsets (MC2).
 The background color (set via `-bg`) is mapped to bit pattern `00`. Other colors map to the remaining bit pattern `10` for sprites or `11` for charsets.

 * `-syXX`:
 y-offset applied when converting sprites (defaults to 0). Useful when extracting sprite overlays.

### OUTPUT OPTIONS

 * `-chXX`:
 converts to charset and charmap instead of sprites (bytes start at `XX`, usually `00`).
 With multicolor conversion, characters consisting of 2 colors (where one is background) that contain single pixels are still converted as hires.

   * `-cmX`:
   together with `-ch`, also generate colormap with `X` as default character color. 

 * `-tmX`:
converts to X*X tiles and tilemap instead of sprites. X can be `2` upto `9`. Bytes start at 0 unless specified with `-ch`.

Options on the command line take priority over those in the file name.

Example: `java Sprite2asm -mcXY file1-ch07.png file2.png` will interpret asset `file1-ch07.png` as multi color and convert it to charset and charmap, where bytes in the charmap start at `7`. Asset `file2.png` will be converted to multi color sprites, as sprites are the default.

### BIT FORMATS

Multicolor bits are interpreted differently for sprites, characters and bitmaps:

         mc bits  00        01         10         11
    sprites       BG:$D021  MC1:$D025  $D027+     MC2:$D026
    chars         BG:$D021  MC1:$D022  MC2:$D023  $D800+
    bitmap        BG:$D021  SCR:HN     SCR:LN     $D800+

      hires bits  0         1
    sprites       BG:$D021  $D027+
    chars         BG:$D021  $D800+
    bitmap        SCR:LN    SCR:HN

Sprites will always appear on top of bit patterns `0`, `00` or `01` of the underlying characters or bitmap.
However, sprites with 'lower' priority - their bit set to `1` in `$D01B` - will appear behind bit patterns `1`, `10` or `11`.
Thus, sprites are always displayed on top of BG and MC1, but can be behind MC2 and $D800+.

### TODO
 * specify -dh for double height sprites (height 42) what pixel to take? upper or lower?
 * specify -dw for double width sprites (width 48) what pixel to take? left or right?
 * Ldtk tilemap import
